- [Instructor] In certain circumstances,
we may want our event listeners to be triggered.
Let's say you want to execute event listeners
only for users that belong to the VIP group.
You could write this by implementing if statements.
However, overusing conditionals results in code
that is more complex and difficult to maintain.
In some cases we can avoid this by fine tuning
those conditions with @EventListener
and Spring Expression Language.
@EventListener provides a conditional tribute
that accepts spell expression.
The event will be handled
if the expression evaluates the Boolean true,
or one of the following strings: true, on, yes, or one.
The default expression is empty string,
meaning the event is always handled.
Here's some examples for referencing event and its content.
#event to reference an event.
#event.customer.type equals b2c.
We can also reference other Spring beans
with at @myBean.test #event.
For more on expressions, you can check Spring docs.
In this lesson, our marketing department is asking us
to run a promotion for all new customers
who have signed up for a newsletter.
This sounds like a perfect candidate
for conditional event listeners.
Within the promotion package,
we will create a new promotion listeners class.
Mark it as a Spring bean.
Let's create a new method on registration event
of type void with customer register event as an argument.
We will also inject and use promotion service
and its method applied from promotion.
Now, if you mark our method only with @EventListener,
it will be triggered every time.
We need to apply the condition
by first referencing the event, customer, and newsletter.
In our test package, we have a class with methods
that check if promotions are applied or not
depending if customer applied for a newsletter.
If we have done our job right,
our registered customer test cases should be green.